# interviews

I am going to use this repo as a collection of interview questions/exercises and my attempts.

Publicly available for readers to get a sense of my coding skills which continually evolve over time.

As a problem solver, approach is:
- mvp asap (with a concrete acceptance criteria and 
- iterate over mvp for optimization and improvements
- big fan of wiki/docs to generate interest and knowledge transfer

# Academic

Aug 09 - Nov 13	Queen's University, Canada 
(4y)	Database Systems Lab	(http://queensdsl.weebly.com/) 
	Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Computer Science
Advisor: Prof. Patrick Martin, Prof. Farhana Zulkernine
Thesis: Cost-Effective Resource Configurations for Executing Data-intensive Workloads in Public Clouds

The promise of "infinite" resources given by the cloud computing paradigm has led to recent interest in exploiting clouds for large-scale data-intensive computing. Given this supposedly infinite resource set, we need a management function that regulates application workloads on these resources. This doctoral research focuses on two aspects of workload management, namely data processing and provisioning. I design an autonomic and generic framework for workload execution and resource provisioning. I develop search algorithms, and associated performance and cost models to minimize the cost of executing data-intensive workloads in a cloud. The work is evaluated using diverse workloads in the Amazon public cloud.



Jul 04 - Jul 05	The University of Manchester, UK
(1y)	Software Systems	(www.manchester.ac.uk/research/) 
	Masters of Philosophy (MPhil) in Computer Science bypassing MSc.

Thesis: Managing distributed information for performance control of Grid-based applications. 

mian_05_grid-based_applications_mphil_thesis.pdf

### Abstract
Distributed technologies enable distributed resources to be harnessed. The heterogeneity and dynamic behaviour of resources presents many challenges such as discovery, characterisation and monitoring of these resources. It is particularly challenging to control the application behaviour running on a grid. The ideal would be to enable such applications to be automatically adaptive by associating them with a performance control system.

Performance control systems need performance information to make effective performance control decisions. This performance information may be generated by different components of a geographically distributed application. Effective performance information management, for example the provision of rapid access to this information by a performance control system, is an interesting challenge. This challenge has been studied by developing a performance information repository, Perfrep. This repository is configured with different geographical configurations. Perfrep has been extended to use local performance control at the distributed sites. Perfrep is evaluated by comparing the effects of different repository configurations on the performance of a distributed application. All the experiments are performed over a wide area network.

This investigation empirically demonstrates that using distributed performance information management to facilitate local performance control can significantly outperform centralised performance information management.

This work is particularly suitable for those systems that generate plentiful performance information at the distributed sites, and require the performance information both locally and on a remote site. In addition, this work is particularly valuable to those systems that require minimal overhead in managing such information. 
The work presented is directly applicable to the PERCO prototype. 
